README.md, before:

# PolynomialEquations

[![Build Status](https://github.com/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl/actions)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl)
[![Build Status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/hurak/PolynomialEquations-jl)
[![Coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl)
[![Coverage](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl?branch=master)
[![Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-stable-blue.svg)](https://hurak.github.io/PolynomialEquations.jl/stable)
[![Dev](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-dev-blue.svg)](https://hurak.github.io/PolynomialEquations.jl/dev)

A Julia package for solving equations with univariate polynomials. Solvers for [linear (Diophantine) equations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diophantine_equation#Linear_Diophantine_equations) (also called [Bezout identity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B%C3%A9zout%27s_identity)) in the ring of univariate polynomials and quadratic equations of special kind (also called spectral factorization) are (planned to be) provided.

It must be emphasized that the package does not offer functionality for solving nonlinear equations with the nonlinearities in the form of multivariate polynomials.

## Available solvers

The equations currently solved by the package are

```math
a(s)x(s)+b(s)y(s) = 0
```
and

```math
a(s)x(s)+b(s)y(s) = c(s)
```
where `a`, `b` and `c` are given univariate polynomials in the variable `s` and `x` and `y` are the polynomials to be found.

### Examples

```julia
julia> a = Polynomial([1,2,3],:s)
Polynomial(1 + 2*s + 3*s^2)

julia> b = Polynomial([4,5],:s)
Polynomial(4 + 5*s)

julia> c = Polynomial([1,1],:s)
Polynomial(1 + s)

julia> a = a*c
Polynomial(1 + 3*s + 5*s^2 + 3*s^3)

julia> b = b*c
Polynomial(4 + 9*s + 5*s^2)

julia> x, y = axby0(a,b)
Degree of x: 1  Dimension of nullspace of S: 1
Degree of x: 0  Dimension of nullspace of S: 0
(Polynomial(-0.5393598899705949 - 0.6741998624632413*s), Polynomial(0.1348399724926485 + 0.2696799449852973*s + 0.4045199174779448*s^2))

julia> a*x+b*y
Polynomial(-8.881784197001252e-16 - 4.440892098500626e-16*s - 8.881784197001252e-16*s^2 - 8.881784197001252e-16*s^3)
```

and

```julia
julia> a = Polynomial([1,2,3],:s)
Polynomial(1 + 2*s + 3*s^2)

julia> b = Polynomial([4,5],:s)
Polynomial(4 + 5*s)

julia> c = Polynomial([6,7,8],:s)
Polynomial(6 + 7*s + 8*s^2)

julia> x,y = axbyc(a,b,c)
(Polynomial(4.181818181818182), Polynomial(0.4545454545454547 - 0.909090909090909*s))

julia> a*x+b*y-c
Polynomial(8.881784197001252e-16*s)
```

## To do

The problems for which solvers are not yet implemented in this package are the symmetric and conjugate linear equations

```math
a(s)x(-s)+b(-s)y(s) = c(s)
```

```math
a(s)x(-s)+a(-s)x(s) = 2b(s)
```
```math
a(z)x(1/z)+b(1/z)y(z) = c(z)+d(1/z)
```
and

```math
a(z)x(1/z)+a(1/z)x(z) = b(z)+b(1/z)
```
in which `a`, `b` and `c` are given polynomials and `x` and `y` are the polynomials to be found.

A plan is to implement some solver(s) for the quadratic equations too, namely the equations of the type

```math
a(s)a(-s) = x(-s)x(s)
```
and

```math
a(z)a(1/z) = x(z)x(1/z)
```
where `a` is some given univariate polynomial and `x` is a Hurwitz stable and Schur stable polynomial, respectively, That is, all its roots are inside the open left half plane and an open unit circle, respectively.

## Related packages
- [Polynomials](https://github.com/JuliaMath/Polynomials.jl) – provides the basic data types – `Polynomial` and `LaurentPolynomial`.
- [PolynomialMatrices](https://github.com/JuliaPolynomialMatrices/PolynomialMatrices.jl) – a package defining a new data type – a polynomial matrix (or matrix polynomial). In principle, many if not all equations with polynomials can be reformulated as equations with polynomial matrices. For example, the equation ``ax+by=0`` can be formulated as ``[a b][x;y]=0``, that is a polynomial nullspace problem ``Ax=0``, or similarly ``ax+by=c`` can be rewritten as ``AX =c``, therefore developing dedicated scalar versions of solvers might be viewed as redundant. Still, in many projects scalar polynomials are used exclusively (SISO filter and controller design) and avoiding the complications with polynomial matrices is useful.   
- [ControlSystems](https://github.com/JuliaControl/ControlSystems.jl) – a package for control system design. This package and the next  might be finally benefitting from the `PolynomialEquations` package. Some solver for linear diophantine equation with univariate polynomials is already implemented in `ControlSystems` package, namely the [dab](http://juliacontrol.github.io/ControlSystems.jl/latest/lib/synthesis/#ControlSystems.dab) function, but others are missing.
- [DSP](https://github.com/JuliaDSP/DSP.jl) – a package for digital signal processing.

Commit message:

Added Polynomial Toolbox for Matlab to README.

README.md, after:

# PolynomialEquations

[![Build Status](https://github.com/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl/workflows/CI/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl/actions)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl)
[![Build Status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/github/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/hurak/PolynomialEquations-jl)
[![Coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl)
[![Coverage](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/hurak/PolynomialEquations.jl?branch=master)
[![Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-stable-blue.svg)](https://hurak.github.io/PolynomialEquations.jl/stable)
[![Dev](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-dev-blue.svg)](https://hurak.github.io/PolynomialEquations.jl/dev)

A Julia package for solving equations with univariate polynomials. Solvers for [linear (Diophantine) equations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Diophantine_equation#Linear_Diophantine_equations) (also called [Bezout identity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/B%C3%A9zout%27s_identity)) in the ring of univariate polynomials and quadratic equations of special kind (also called spectral factorization) are (planned to be) provided.

It must be emphasized that the package does not offer functionality for solving nonlinear equations with the nonlinearities in the form of multivariate polynomials.

## Available solvers

The equations currently solved by the package are

```math
a(s)x(s)+b(s)y(s) = 0
```
and

```math
a(s)x(s)+b(s)y(s) = c(s)
```
where `a`, `b` and `c` are given univariate polynomials in the variable `s` and `x` and `y` are the polynomials to be found.

### Examples

```julia
julia> a = Polynomial([1,2,3],:s)
Polynomial(1 + 2*s + 3*s^2)

julia> b = Polynomial([4,5],:s)
Polynomial(4 + 5*s)

julia> c = Polynomial([1,1],:s)
Polynomial(1 + s)

julia> a = a*c
Polynomial(1 + 3*s + 5*s^2 + 3*s^3)

julia> b = b*c
Polynomial(4 + 9*s + 5*s^2)

julia> x, y = axby0(a,b)
Degree of x: 1  Dimension of nullspace of S: 1
Degree of x: 0  Dimension of nullspace of S: 0
(Polynomial(-0.5393598899705949 - 0.6741998624632413*s), Polynomial(0.1348399724926485 + 0.2696799449852973*s + 0.4045199174779448*s^2))

julia> a*x+b*y
Polynomial(-8.881784197001252e-16 - 4.440892098500626e-16*s - 8.881784197001252e-16*s^2 - 8.881784197001252e-16*s^3)
```

and

```julia
julia> a = Polynomial([1,2,3],:s)
Polynomial(1 + 2*s + 3*s^2)

julia> b = Polynomial([4,5],:s)
Polynomial(4 + 5*s)

julia> c = Polynomial([6,7,8],:s)
Polynomial(6 + 7*s + 8*s^2)

julia> x,y = axbyc(a,b,c)
(Polynomial(4.181818181818182), Polynomial(0.4545454545454547 - 0.909090909090909*s))

julia> a*x+b*y-c
Polynomial(8.881784197001252e-16*s)
```

## To do

The problems for which solvers are not yet implemented in this package are the symmetric and conjugate linear equations

```math
a(s)x(-s)+b(-s)y(s) = c(s)
```

```math
a(s)x(-s)+a(-s)x(s) = 2b(s)
```
```math
a(z)x(1/z)+b(1/z)y(z) = c(z)+d(1/z)
```
and

```math
a(z)x(1/z)+a(1/z)x(z) = b(z)+b(1/z)
```
in which `a`, `b` and `c` are given polynomials and `x` and `y` are the polynomials to be found.

A plan is to implement some solver(s) for the quadratic equations too, namely the equations of the type

```math
a(s)a(-s) = x(-s)x(s)
```
and

```math
a(z)a(1/z) = x(z)x(1/z)
```
where `a` is some given univariate polynomial and `x` is a Hurwitz stable and Schur stable polynomial, respectively, That is, all its roots are inside the open left half plane and an open unit circle, respectively.

## Related Julia packages
- [Polynomials](https://github.com/JuliaMath/Polynomials.jl) – provides the basic data types – `Polynomial` and `LaurentPolynomial`.
- [PolynomialMatrices](https://github.com/JuliaPolynomialMatrices/PolynomialMatrices.jl) – a package defining a new data type – a polynomial matrix (or matrix polynomial). In principle, many if not all equations with polynomials can be reformulated as equations with polynomial matrices. For example, the equation ``ax+by=0`` can be formulated as ``[a b][x;y]=0``, that is a polynomial nullspace problem ``Ax=0``, or similarly ``ax+by=c`` can be rewritten as ``AX =c``, therefore developing dedicated scalar versions of solvers might be viewed as redundant. Still, in many projects scalar polynomials are used exclusively (SISO filter and controller design) and avoiding the complications with polynomial matrices is useful.   
- [ControlSystems](https://github.com/JuliaControl/ControlSystems.jl) – a package for control system design. This package and the next  might be finally benefitting from the `PolynomialEquations` package. Some solver for linear diophantine equation with univariate polynomials is already implemented in `ControlSystems` package, namely the [dab](http://juliacontrol.github.io/ControlSystems.jl/latest/lib/synthesis/#ControlSystems.dab) function, but others are missing.
- [DSP](https://github.com/JuliaDSP/DSP.jl) – a package for digital signal processing.

## Related other software packages

- [Polynomial Toolbox for Matlab](http://polyx.com/)  - one of the most complete packages for numerical computations with univariate polynomials. Commercial.
